Update the Hibernate Documentation (#150)
GoogleCloudPlatform/google-cloud-spanner-hibernate: README.adoc

The dialect and driver are compatible with all values (`create`, `create-drop`, and `update`) of the `hibernate.hbm2ddl.auto` setting.

You can immediately begin to start using Hibernate after configuring it for your project.

== User Guide

The following section describes recommendations and best practices for how to best use the Cloud Spanner Hibernate Dialect.

=== Use Generated UUIDs for ID Generation

In Spanner, the Universally Unique Identifier (UUID) is the preferred ID type in Cloud Spanner because it avoids hotspots as the system divides data among servers by key ranges.
A monotonically increasing integer key would also work, but can be less performant.

For this reason, if you are using generated IDs in your code, you should configure UUID generation like this:

[source, java]
----
@Entity
public class Employee {

  @Id
  @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.AUTO)
  @Type(type="uuid-char")
  public UUID id;
}
----

The `@Type(type="uuid-char")` annotation specifies that this UUID value will be stored in Cloud Spanner as a `STRING` column.

> Leaving out this annotation causes a `BYTES` column to be used.

Author: Yeah I think bytes are just a little harder to use in practice. For example, there's the JPA repository function to get an entity by ID, so if it's bytes the user would need to do some conversion instead of just provide a UUID.

I feel the way this section is written, we're kind of suggesting to users to default to using String UUID but we also tell them how to use Byte UUID if they want. I don't think we're saying that using bytes is problematic.

Hibernate's `@GeneratedValue` annotation for `long` properties is supported but not recommended:
[source, java]
----
@Entity
public class Employee {

  @Id
  @GeneratedValue   // Not Recommended.
  public Long id;
}
----

> This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and requires locking of the `hibernate_sequence` table for inserts.

Author: So I believe this refers to how you would need to create a hibernate sequence table to use the generated sequential IDs. And all the writes to that table will cause "locking" I believe.

But we can remove if it's unclear; the point of this section is to just suggest that users use UUIDs.

> This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and requires locking of the `hibernate_sequence` table for inserts.

Reviewer: If I recall from manual experimenting even when I just wanted 10 test entities with generated IDs I saw that the hibernate_sequence table was incrementing the value in the table each time a new ID was requested.

> This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and requires locking of the `hibernate_sequence` table for inserts.

Reviewer 2: Even if that's the case, I feel like we're stating the obvious here. I would modify it a bit...

```suggestion
This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and makes use of the `hibernate_sequence` table for generating IDs.
```

=== Limit Large DML Transactions

Cloud Spanner implements a mutation limit on each transaction - each Spanner transaction https://cloud.google.com/spanner/quotas#limits_for_creating_reading_updating_and_deleting_data[may only have up to 20,000 operations which modify rows of a table].

> NOTE: Deleting a row counts as one operation and inserting/updating rows will count with the multiplicity of the number of columns they affect.

Author: Done.

For example if one inserts a row that contains 5 columns, it counts as 5 modify operations for the insert.

Consequently, users must take care to work around the limitations.

> 1. We recommend avoiding the usage of `CASCADE_TYPE.ALL` in Entity annotations because this might trigger a large number of entities to be deleted in a single transaction and bring you over the 20,000 limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. We recommend being careful with the use of `CASCADE_TYPE.ALL` in Entity annotations because, depending on the application, it might trigger a large number of entities to be deleted in a single transaction and bring you over the 20,000 limit.
```

> 2. When updating or persisting entities to a table, we recommend being mindful of this limitation and limit the size of your Hibernate transactions to avoid going above the limit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Also, when persisting a collection of entities, be mindful of this 20,000 mutations per transaction constraint.
```

=== Enable Hibernate Batching

> Batching SQL statements together allows you to optimize the performance of your application by including a group of SQL statements in a network call.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Batching SQL statements together allows you to optimize the performance of your application by including a group of SQL statements in a single remote call.
```

> This allows you to reduce the round-trip time between your application and Spanner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This allows you to reduce the number of round-trips between your application and Cloud Spanner.
```

> By default, Hibernate does not batch the statements that it sends to the Spanner JDBC driver.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, Hibernate does not batch the statements that it sends to the Cloud Spanner JDBC driver.
```

> This can be enabled by configuring `hibernate.jdbc.batch_size` in your Hibernate configuration file:

Author: Done.

[source, xml]
----
<property name="hibernate.jdbc.batch_size">100</property>
----

The property is set to `100` as an example; you may experiment with the batch size to see what works best for your application.

=== Query Optimization

The https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/query-syntax[Cloud Spanner SQL syntax] offers a variety of query hints to tune and optimize the performance of queries.
If you find that you need to take advantage of this feature, you can achieve this in Hibernate using native SQL queries.

This is an example of using the `@{FORCE_JOIN_ORDER=TRUE}` hint in a native Spanner SQL query.

[source,java]
----

> SQLQuery query = session.createSQLQuery("SELECT * FROM Singers AS s

Reviewer 2: Show how to execute it too?

}
----

This results in sequential IDs that are https://cloud.google.com/spanner/docs/schema-and-data-model#primary_keys[not optimal for Cloud Spanner] and makes use of the `hibernate_sequence` table for generating IDs.

=== Limit Large DML Transactions

Cloud Spanner has a mutation limit on each transaction - each Spanner transaction https://cloud.google.com/spanner/quotas#limits_for_creating_reading_updating_and_deleting_data[may only have up to 20,000 operations which modify rows of a table].

NOTE: Deleting a row counts as one operation and inserting/updating rows will count as a number of operations equal to the number of affected columns.
For example if one inserts a row that contains 5 columns, it counts as 5 modify operations for the insert.

Consequently, users must take care to avoid encountering these constraints.

1. We recommend being careful with the use of `CASCADE_TYPE.ALL` in Entity annotations because, depending on the application, it might trigger a large number of entities to be deleted in a single transaction and bring you over the 20,000 limit.

> 2. Also, when persisting a collection of entities, be mindful of this 20,000 mutations per transaction constraint.

Reviewer 3: s/this/the

> This is because Hibernate's default behavior (`PersistentTableBulkIdStrategy`) attempts to create intermediate tables to handle delete and update operations on the multiple tables that represent a `JOINED` inheritance hierarchy, but these table creations statements do not conform to Cloud Spanner DDL.

Reviewer 2: Can we just make this a default via our `ServiceContributor`?

Author: Yup, PR created #151.

[options="header"]
|===
| Unsupported Feature | Description
| Constraints | No support for `FOREIGN KEY`, `UNIQUE`, or `ON DELETE CASCADE`. Cloud Spanner does not enforce relationship links outside of Hibernate.
| Catalog and schema scoping for table names | Tables name references cannot contain periods or other punctuation.
| Column default values | Cloud Spanner treats `null` like any other value and it gets no special handling.
| Big-decimal or arbitrary-precision numbers | The dialect does not support `java.math.BigDecimal` because Cloud Spanner doesn't have SQL `NUMERIC` or `DECIMAL` support.
| Schema Generation for Interleaved Tables | The dialect currently does not support creating interleaved tables during schema generation.
|===

=== Constraints

Cloud Spanner does not support database constraints.
As a result, `SpannerDialect` does not currently support any constraints such as `FOREIGN KEY`, `UNIQUE`, or `ON DELETE CASCADE`.

NOTE: Hibernate doesn't directly rely on the existence of constraints to perform its operations and leaves the enforcement of relationship links to the database.

> The lack of the foreign key constraint affects relationships and collection properties annotated with `@ElementCollection`.

Reviewer 2: How does it affect?

Author: I don't know; @ChengyuanZhao - Could you help fill us in on this one?

Reviewer: This is just mentioning how Hibernate uses FK constraints in the DDL for both relationships as well as collection fields, so not having FKs means both of these would just be performed as joins on otherwise unrelated columns. There might be some performance impact from that.

Reviewer 2: OK I see.
```suggestion
The lack of the foreign key constraint applies to relationships and collection properties annotated with `@ElementCollection`.
```
